Add improvements to concept docs. (#2655)
wso2/docs-is: en/docs/references/concepts/authorization/user-managed-access.md

# User Managed Access (UMA 2.0)

## What is UMA 2.0?

UMA 2.0 (User Managed Access) is a federated authorization standard protocol approved by the [Kantara Initiative](https://kantarainitiative.org/). It is built on top of OAuth 2.0 and enables party-to-party sharing. 

UMA enables users to share and control access to their protected resources with other parties that request access to them. Additionally, it also strengthens data privacy and helps to comply with modern-day privacy regulations such as [GDPR](../../compliance/gdpr) and [CCPA](../../compliance/ccpa). For instance, consider a patient who wishes to share their health data (such as medical prescriptions and lab reports) with their doctor, family members, and health insurance company. They may wish to selectively share some health-related data with certain parties, but may not want to share everything with everyone, and may wish to give them permission to `view` the data, but not `edit` it. UMA 2.0 helps to effectively share this data as well as maintain control over the resource sharing in a secure and reliable manner. 

> This is done using authorization policies. The specialty of this protocol is that resource owners need not be present online at the time of access, because the cross-party sharing is driven by pre-defined policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done using authorization policies. The specialty of this protocol is that resource owners need not be present online at the time of access, because the cross-party sharing is driven by predefined policies.
```

-----

## How does it work?

UMA works by defining a workflow that creates authorization policies on a centralized authorization server. There are five main roles associated with a UMA workflow. 

> - **Resource owner**: The user or entity that grants access to a protected resource. 

Reviewer: Please remove fullstops or make them sentences.

- **Token Introspection Endpoint (optional)**: provides a means for the resource server to introspect the RPT, which is required to access a UMA protected resource.

!!! tip
    For more detailed information about each of these endpoints, and sample requests and responses, see [Resource Registration Endpoint](../uma-resource-registration) or [Permission Endpoint](../uma-permission-endpoint).

When the resource server makes an access request to the authorization server, it needs to access these three endpoints of the Protection API. In order to access the protection API, it is a must for the request made by the resource server to be accompanied by an access token, namely a Protection API Access Token (PAT). 

PAT is simply an OAuth access token with the scope  `uma_protection`, which represents the resource owner’s authorization to use the protection API. It uniquely represents the resource owner, the resource server used for resource management, and the authorization server used for the protection of these resources.

!!! info

>     For more information refer [Federated Authorization for User-Managed Access (UMA) 2.0](https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/rec-oauth-uma-federated-authz-2.0.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For more information, refer [Federated Authorization for User-Managed Access (UMA) 2.0](https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/rec-oauth-uma-federated-authz-2.0.html).
```

> - **pre-defined authorization grant rules**: the resource owner can configure authorization grant rules (policy conditions) at will rather than having to authorize access token issuance each time synchronously. The authorization server and resource server interact with the client and requesting party asynchronously with respect to the resource owner's interactions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **predefined authorization grant rules**: the resource owner can configure authorization grant rules (policy conditions) at will rather than having to authorize access token issuance each time synchronously. The authorization server and resource server, interact with the client and requesting party asynchronously, with respect to the resource owner's interactions. 
```

!!! info

>     For more information refer [User-Managed Access (UMA) 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0 Authorization](https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/rec-oauth-uma-grant-2.0.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For more information, refer [User-Managed Access (UMA) 2.0 Grant for OAuth 2.0 Authorization](https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/rec-oauth-uma-grant-2.0.html).
```
